My name is Tyler Knapp and I'm a highly driven individual with an unwavering dedication to my craft. My passion lies in software development and exploring the latest advancements in technology. I have a relentless desire to create, innovate and make meaningful impact through building and collaborating on new ideas.
My journey in the tech industry began seven years ago, right after I left the University of Mississippi, where I was studying business. Feeling a stronger pull towards technology, I started working in the tech field, letting my curiosity guide me.
I've worn many hats throughout my career, starting from being a project manager at E11 Group between 2013 and 2015, before moving onto Shift Lab. At Shift Lab, my growth trajectory saw me move from Developer I in 2020, to Developer II in 2021, and currently as a Lead Developer since 2022. Each step of the way, I leveraged my skills to contribute to the success of these forward-thinking organizations.
Over the years, I have honed a diverse set of skills. These include software development, API and frontend development, and project management. In terms of technical abilities, I'm proficient in a wide array of languages and technologies like JavaScript, TypeScript, React, Next.js, and Ruby on Rails, to name a few. My expertise with platforms like AWS, MongoDB, Redis, GraphQL, and REST, among others, has often come in handy. I also have experience with collaborative tools like Jira, Trello, Asana, Slack, Figma, and Adobe Photoshop, and methodologies like Agile, Scrum, and Kanban.
Along with my technical skills, I also take pride in my soft skills, which include leadership, collaboration, communication, and problem-solving. My drive and decisiveness, coupled with persistence, have been key in my journey so far.
As for the tools of my trade, I particularly enjoy working with Next.js, Node.js, Figma, Python, AI, Visual Studio Code, and Github's Copilot. I also frequently use Vercel, Render, and Heroku.
In my downtime, I love to read, learn, and exercise. My favorite book is 'Musashi' by Eiji Yoshikawa. Some other books that I really enjoyed are 'The Lean Startup' by Eric Ries, and 'Zero to One' by Peter Thiel. I am also a big fan of anything written by Jocko Willink and books like 'With Old Breed' by Eugene Sledge and 'Tools of Titans'.
I’m excited about the potential for technology to change the world, and eager to continue leveraging my skills and curiosity to contribute to the success of forward-thinking organizations
Some of my most proud accomplishments outside of work have been running the Austin Marathon in 2022 and most recently completing Ironman 70.3 in Chattanooga, TN.
My First project as a software developer was helping build an API for a tvOS app that served images that were displayed as tv backgrounds turning TV into a digital picture frame. The API was built with Ruby on Rails and we used Stripe for managing subscriptions.
The second project I worked on in my software development was an e-commerce website built with Ruby on Rails, Spree Commerce, and React.js. I was tasked with helping maintain the project and adding new features. Some features I helped build were webhooks to streamline vendor orders, FedEx shipping label integration, analytics, and more.
The third project I worked on was an e-commerce project built with Ruby on Rails, Stripe, Veevart (Salesforce), and React.js. I helped maintain the project and build new features. Some features I helped build were adding the ability to checkout with Affirm, giving the visitor the ability to save artists and artworks to their profile, and more.
Another project I worked on was a re-platforming effort for a client that was using Ruby on Rails and Spree commerce. I led the team in the re-platforming effort and we decided to use Shopify as an API, Next.js, Vercel, and serverless via AWS. I helped build the Shopify API, Next.js frontend, and serverless functions. I also helped build the CI/CD pipeline for the project. The project leveraged Shopify's GraphQL Storefront and Admin APIs. We integrated algolia for search and Contentful as a CMS. There were many challenges with this project in trying to replicate the existing features such as gift with purchases, tiered discounts, vendor integrations, and more, but we were able to overcome them and deliver a great product.
Another project I built personally was an health assessment and CMS app for a health coaching company called Pompa Program. The health coaching company had a one-hundred plus question assessment that they would have their clients fill out and then they would manually score the assessment and send the results to the client. I built an app that would allow the client to fill out the assessment and then the app would automatically score the assessment and send the results to the client. I also built a CMS for the health coaching company to manage the assessments and the results. The app was built with Next.js and Vercel. The app leveraged Contentful as a CMS.
The most recent spate of projects I have worked on for one client was leading the development of a tool for the client's sales reps to build agreements with their customers, an external, customer facing API that allows for users to generate quotes and make pickup requests, and a customer portal for users to login and view their shipments.
I call Florida my home state. I have lived in New York City, Austin, Texas, and now St. Petersburg, Florida.
This website (https://tylerknapp.dev) was built using Next.js, OpenAI, Supabase, pgVector, and Vercel. I created a txt file that contains my resume as well as interests and accomplishments. The file chunked to avoid token limits, then embeddings are created with each chunk using OpenAI's embedding API. The embeddings are then saved to a Pinecone vector database. When a question is asked, the question is converted into an embedding with OpenAI then a query is made with the embedding received to the vector database. If there are any matches, they are returned and then passed to an OpenAI completion model to answer the question. That question is then rendered to the visitor.
I am currently working on my own iOS app called DavidAI which will act as a user's personal health companion. The project integrates health data collected via wearables with AI. Users will be able to track meals in natural language, generate workout programs for weight training, cycling, and running, and get personalized insights on their progress towards their goals.
